
  Tea Room Business

  By

  Mrs. Ida Lee Cary

  Dedicated to my daughter

  Eula

  Printed by THE A. V. HAIGHT CO.
  Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

  Copyright, 1920, IDA LEE CARY




Tea Room Business is the most attractive and profitable way for a woman
to earn money in her own home. Though married you will find you can buy
many things for yourself and family that you could not buy if you did
not have a business of your own.

I hope with my following instruction you will have a profitable
business.

  Yours for success,

  (Mrs.) Ida Lee Cary.




Care of Tea Room


You may select any pleasant room in your house to use for Tea Room.
Have the room well aired every morning and free from dust, you may use
one large table or two or three small tables that seat four to a table.
If a tablecloth is used in place of doilies, first lay the silent cloth
without a crease or wrinkle. Then lay the linen cloth perfectly smooth
and even and in the center of your table place a linen centerpiece with
a vase of flowers or a small table fern.

If you use candlesticks place them on each side of the flowers, place
chairs around the table at each place. Now you are ready to set your
table, the silver forks at the left of the plate and knife and spoons
at the right of the plate and lay them in the order they are to be
used, the first one to be used on the outside. Place a folded napkin
at the left of the plate, a bread and butter plate at the tips of the
forks with butter spreader laid across the plate. Near the top of each
plate individual pepper and salt cellars, at the right of each plate
place a glass for water, and sugar bowl and cream pitcher at each end
of the table.

Food should be passed at the left and placed at the right. When coffee
and tea is served, place a cup at the right of each person.

When clearing off the table, food must be first removed, then the
soiled dishes, glass, silver, then crumb. Everything relating to one
course must be removed before serving another course. Soiled plates
and dishes should be removed from the right. Glasses for water must be
kept filled.

Bread must be freshly cut.

Water must be fresh and cold.

Butter must not be soft and oily.

The sharp edge of knives must be turned toward the plate. Bowls of
spoons and tines of forks must be turned up.

Waiter or waitress is responsible for the heat of the dishes after they
come from the kitchen, if not hot enough they must be sent back.

When serving fruit, use for each person a fruit plate, on which is a
fruit doily, and finger bowl one-third full of warm water. On the plate
at the right of the bowl lay a silver fruit knife, on the left of the
plate a fruit spoon.

Such things as mustard, vinegar and olive oil cruets which may be
wanted, should be in readiness on the side-table or in the pantry.

I think it is a good idea to make a specialty of serving waffles. I
found that my waffles pleased everyone. If you advertise that you
are serving waffles with maple syrup, chocolate or coffee, I am sure
you will have all the business you will be able to attend to. Waffle
receipt is in Cook Book under the head of Waffles and Creamed Chicken.
I also found my chocolate cake a great favorite with everyone.

With my book of receipts you should make a success of your Tea Room.

Below I will give you a sample menu just to give you an idea of
arrangement, but I will not quote prices.

If there are any questions you wish to ask me in regard to your Tea
Room, write me and I will gladly answer them.

  Yours for success,

  (Mrs.) Ida Lee Cary.




MENU (Sample)

BEVERAGES

  Tea--Breakfast, Ceylon or Japan
  Coffee
  After Dinner Coffee
  Chocolate or Cocoa with whipped cream
  Milk
  Iced Tea or Coffee
  Lemonade, hot or cold


DAIRY DISHES, BREAD

  White Bread
  Rolls
  Toast, dry or buttered
  Creamed Toast
  Crackers and Milk
  Bread and Milk
  Shredded Wheat Biscuits with Cream
  Oat Meal with Cream
  Corn Flakes with Cream


SOUPS

  Bouillon
  Celery
  Chicken
  Chicken Broth
  Tomato


SANDWICHES

  Lettuce Sandwich
  Ham Sandwich
  Chicken Sandwich
  Chicken Salad Sandwich
  Club Sandwich
  Nut Sandwich


EGGS

  Boiled Eggs
  Fried Eggs
  Scrambled Eggs on Toast
  Poached Eggs on Toast
  Plain Omelette
  Ham Omelette
  Omelette with Bacon


HOT MEATS WITH BREAD OR ROLLS

  Ham and Eggs
  Bacon and Eggs
  Small Steak
  Large Porter-house Steak with Mushrooms
  Cream Chicken on Toast
  Lamb Chops
  Fried Chicken
  Cold Chicken
  Cold Ham
  Waffles and Maple Syrup
  Waffles and Chicken
  Waffles and Steak


VEGETABLES

  Saratoga Potatoes
  Hashed Brown Potatoes
  Fried Potatoes
  Cream Potatoes
  Green Peas
  Asparagus Tips on Toast
  Spinach
  Creamed Mushrooms on Toast


SALADS

  Fresh Tomato Salad
  Lettuce Salad
  Orange Salad
  Fruit Salad
  Chicken Salad
  Waldorf


RELISHES

  Queen Olives
  Stuffed Olives
  Salted Almonds
  Orange Marmalade


DESSERTS

  Cake
  Ice Cream
  Ices
  Grape Fruit
  Oranges
  Assorted Fruit
  Pie




Transcriber’s Notes

Page 3: “in place of dollies” changed to “in place of doilies”

